# TFM MuBiB – Emma Reig Martí

This repository contains the complete development of the **Master’s Thesis Final Project** of the [Master's Degree in Bioinformatics and Biostatistics], titled 

**An integrated workflow based on Artificial Intelligence for the Optimization of Docetaxel-loaded Polymeric Micelles** 

The project focuses on the design of an exploratory data analysis (EDA) and pre-processing pipeline to optimize the formulation of Soluplus/TPGS MPMs loaded with DTX, conduct the Design of Experiments (DoE) using different commercial DoE/AI-driven softwares, and compare their performance.
---

## Description

The main objectives of this project are:

- Execute experimental designs using commercial software models to define the design space for polymeric micelles formulations.
- Perform an exhaustive EDA using Python to identify patterns and errors, and ensure the integrity of raw experimental data before applying to the software.
- Develop a Python-based standardized pre-processing to handle Dynamic Light Scaterring (DLS) multimodality, implementing similarity metrics (such as the Crámer-von Mises distance) to transform complex distributions into scalar descriptors.
- Evaluate and compare predictive accuracy of the commercial DoE software.


---

## Repository Structure

The repository is organized as follows:

---

## Main scripts

- `DLS_functions+metrics.ipynb` → Contains the core functions and metrics used throughout the project. 
- `DLS_data_analysis.ipynb` → It uses the script 'Dls_functions+metrics.ipynb' to process the DLS raw data. 
- `Analysis_(software_name).ipynb` → Performs the analytical evaluation for each sofware individually. It applies mathematical functions to asses performance. 
- `Analysis_summary.ipynb` → Summarizes and consolidates the results obtained from the different software analyses. 
- `Sampling_points_MAE.ipynb` → Computes the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of the experimental data generated by each software based on sampling points. 

---

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/emma-reig/TFM_MuBiB_Emma-Reig.git
cd TFM_MuBiB_Emma-Reig

---

## Author  
Emma Reig Martí

---

## License
This project has been developed for academic purposes.
